Belong to plan is planning to fail.
Many companies fail as they don't write a detailed business plan.
This will be you after you finish this course.
Welcome to the complete business plan course.
And thank you for purchasing this course.
We're going to have a lot of fun together as we learn everything we need to know about creating an incredible
business plan.
And so by the end of this course you've created an incredible business plan using one of the 50 templates
I created for you in this course I'll be teaching this course in a much more visual hands on exercise
fashion so we can make complex business topics easy and fun to learn and agitating to meaning educational
and entertaining.
You're not only the student in this course you're also the customer and the customer is always right.
So please let me know if you want me to add new lectures covering new topics as my goal is to not only
make this the most comprehensive business planning course on the market but also the most up to date
business planning course.
And as you take this course if you want me to add more lectures covering more topics just please let
me know and I will work around the clock to add new lessons for you.
Thank you.
And let's begin in terms of my background.
I have 25 years of business experience.
I've been investing in startups and starting companies myself and on the boards of many companies in
my career I've raised and managed over a billion dollars and I've worked in venture capital and I have
read hundreds and hundreds of business plans.
I've also written many business plans and I mention all this stuff because I'm going to provide you
with a 13 step process to create your detailed business plan from scratch even if you have no business
experience at all and this course is based on my real life practical experience and not based on theory.
OK let's talk about how to take this course Confucius said.
I hear and I forget I see and I remember I do and I understand as such I think that the best way to
learn is by doing exercises and there will be a lot of exercises in this course that we complete together.
Now when you write a business plan you have to try to be an expert in all major business topics and
so you have to wear a lot of different hats.
And what we're going to do is we're going to wear more than 13 hats in this course.
You'll be a lot of fun you'll see.
And so there's 13 steps that we will do together in this course and many exercises as we go on this
thorough and fun journey together.
Now I want to humbly inspire you to reach your full potential in life by launching a company.
I also want to help you create your business plan so you can decide whether or not to launch this business
full time or not.
This course is for anybody that wants to start a business or for anybody who has already started a business.
And anyone that works in a large company that wants to start a new business unit this course is for
everyone in every sector that is launching a product based or a service based company.
Now there's two tracks in this course.
One track is the fast track and the other track is the complete course track adds.
If you see the word optional at the start of the many questions I will ask you in the exercise wheel
to get we'll do together then what you can do is you can decide to skip that question or go through
the course quickly or not.
It's up to you completely.
So if you don't want to take the fast track then please answer as many questions as you want to.
That applies to your business model and this will make a lot more sense once we start our exercises
together.
Now in the next couple of minutes I will discuss the 13 steps of this course and the 13 steps in your
Excel business plan dashboard file which is attached to this lecture here and looks like this.
Now I will always tell you when and how to complete all of the mini exercises and questions in this
course.
So let's take a look at your business plan dashboard Excel file this Excel file is attached to this
lecture and it works with the Windows or Mac versions of Excel.
And if you want please open the Excel document which again is attached to this very first lecture now.
There are no macros in this Excel file and when you open it if you see this message then please select
enable editing.
I recommend having Excel version 2013 or later installed on your computer.
Now if you don't have Excel you can access the contents of the Excel dashboard and the mini exercises
in the Excel dashboard.
In many PTF files which you can access at this location here.
If you are using the Excel file which I strongly recommend please that I've also given you the option
of accessing the PBX for each exercise by clicking the PBF icons here in the course and once you have
your Excel file open if you want to change the viewing size of the document.
I mean the entire Excel file then please click this button here called get more space in this spreadsheet
for instructions.
OK so let's go back to the course.
Navigator dashboard by clicking on this home button here OK let's discuss how to use this Excel dashboard
file and the 13 steps of the entire course.
So please make sure that your home button is selected and you'll see that whatever tab or location you're
on.
In this comprehensive spreadsheet wherever you are the button will turn green like this home button
after I click it.
And I will always tell you exactly when to click on different buttons in your Excel dashboard.
Now at the top of almost every single tab we see that we can track our course progress in the entire
course and also for all 13 steps.
And as you complete the exercises your progress will automatically be updated right here.
And I also included a Flags option for you in every single section meaning every step of the course
so that you can flag any questions that you want to come back to later.
And I'll explain that much more detail once we start the exercises together.
And if you ever want to understand how to complete a certain step in the course you can click on these
questionmark icons here to watch a video explanation of that particular step.
And I will always tell you exactly when to access each step in this course but you can also press the
forward or back buttons to go to the next lecture or it's or to go to the previous tab in the spreadsheet
which will guide you through the entire Excel file in order.
I will always tell you exactly when to access each step in this course but you can also press the forward
or back buttons to go to the next exercise meaning the next tab in this spreadsheet which will guide
you through the entire Excel file in order and right here you see the resources section which is completely
optional but you can click it access many videos and resources that I created on topics that are helpful
for people starting companies now below the resources tab we have a different inspirational quotes on
every single tab in the course and you can click on these quotes if you want to learn more about the
incredible entrepreneur that created that quote.
It's optional of course.
Now many of the entrepreneurs that are quoted had a huge impact on me when I created this course for
you.
Let's now talk about the 13 steps in this file from a very high level perspective.
You will see that there are blue buttons called inputs and analysis inputs analysis get the blue answers.
And there are green buttons called outputs and I'll always tell you when to press these buttons but
the blue input and analysis buttons are the questions that we will answer together.
That will help us create our business plan.
Then you can click on the output button to see what that section of your business plan will look like
based on your answers and the inputs.
There are many questions to answer but many of them are labeled as optional.
So again if you're in a hurry you can skip the optional questions.
Now I've also created many on and off switches to turn off outputs that might not be relevant to you.
Like biographies to include for many employees in the business plan or whether or not to include a board
in your business plan.
You'll see that all 13 Steps fit into your final business plan output right here and I will make it
really easy to understand how to put all the information here into one of the 50 business plan templates
that I provide you with.
Now as an added bonus you can also click right here on the presentation slides button and based on your
answers to the many questions in the course.
What I did was I created a 10 slide presentation deck automatically for you which you can also create
using the mini PowerPoint presentation templates that I have provided you with in this course.
Of course the presentation slides part of the course is optional.
And you can also minimize that to the top toolbar by clicking this button right here.
And your status in the course will be shown also in this blue rectangular box here and you will see
this small home button here on all the tabs on this blue rectangle here.
In case you want to go back to your home screen and I provide you with many many different ways to navigate
this entire Excel document including the buttons on the toolbar that I created for you or what you can
do is you can click the tabs down here or you can even click this feature here in Excel to go anywhere
you want in this comprehensive spreadsheet.
And what I did was I architected this as a modularized process which will really come in handy as we
build your business plan together.
Now if you can't see this feature here then please go to view in the menu and then select formula bar
and you'll see that on most steps on the left there is a blue shaded part right in the middle on the
left here.
And on the right there is a white shaded part the blue shaded part is to show you an example of how
my pretend company called Shark virtual reality would answer the questions and the pretend entrepreneur
that started shark virtual reality is named Tony shuk which I've also used in one of my other finance
courses.
And you can learn more about shark virtual reality by clicking this optional button right here.
And if you click it there's a short video of him to learn more about him completely optional.
Now since we have to think like a great entrepreneur does when we create a business plan what I want
to do is I'm going to wear another hat throughout this course which is Tony sharks hat and I also want
to show you Tony's product.
So right here are two demo versions of his groundbreaking fictional virtual reality products which will
revolutionize which will revolutionize how we watch movies and how we play video games.
Prequel.
All right we'll come back to this later.
All right.
I promised my son DIL and he gets both those mock products after Rhadamanthus course.
All right so Tony needs to write a solid business plan.
So what we're going to do is we're going to help him write it which will be a fun simple case study
for us as we create our real business plans together.
Now you don't ever have to bother clicking this Excel option up here but if you wanted to find out where
in this business plan excel file that would cover certain topics than what you can do is you can look
look on this list up here and select the business plan topic for example to see where we cover in the
financial section employee salaries expenses.
We would select this option here and I will always tell you exactly when to access everything in this
course as we go on this business plan document creation journey together.
And all the white sheet is cells are for you to update.
So only update stuff in the whites white case.
And of course I'll tell you exactly when answer every single question.
Now for all steps when you watch the videos in the course of how to complete them I show you a menu
like this here so you can jump immediately to that question in the video so I can save you time.
Or you can just watch the entire video if you want to.
Your call and if you want to secure this file with a password please click right here and I recommend
just saving this file on your computer and not online.
I also again didn't put any macros or code in this file at all.
It's secure.
And if you want to see how I created this file from scratch you can watch the optional.
How did I create this Excel file section towards the end of the Course and what I'll do is I'll explain
in that optional section how I created the Excel document.
In easy to understand terms so you will be able to create a similar document to this one here from scratch.
If you have no Excel experience at all.
Again that part is optional.
Now I want to talk about the settings button right here.
Please click it.
And I want you to select your country and your currency and entering your first name or just your nickname
it once you select your country and your currency what I've done is I've them actually updated the course
based on where you live so that it is customized for you and it's a better customer experience.
And this works in every country in the world I have students in every single country.
It's customized for all of you.
Now if the exchange rate is not accurate based on your currency you can always change it after you select
your currency.
In this white box right here if you scroll down you will see helpful links for you based on what country
you live in.
And I wanted to make this course applicable to everyone in every country and for every type of business
model.
So please don't add or remove any rows or columns the spreadsheet.
Thanks.
OK so before we we complete Step One of the course.
I want to quickly mention what you see here on the home page.
I mean the home button if you scroll them what you see here is completely optional to look at.
But if you click the home button and you scroll down you will see that I created a one page summary
report of brief highlights of your entire business model and this page will automatically be updated
as we complete the course.
And what I did was I set this one page snapshot here for you.
So if you print this page to paper or to a PTF it is already formatted entirely for you.
And this is free.
Free for informational purposes if you ever wanted to assess how your business plan looks from a high
level perspective and you can even scroll down here and what you can do is add or remove your contact
details and illegal disclosure in case you want to share this one pager with anyone that's important
to you.
And this one pager is different from the executive summary part of the course which we will talk about
in much more detail.
In Step three now in the next 13 sections of the course were discussed the 13 Steps and the first lecture
of each of the 13 sections will be an overview of the what why and how of that particular section.
So what we'll do is we'll start with a generic imprint.
Instead we get my hat
what we'll do is we'll start with generic inputs and step 1 then step 2 will select which of the 50
templates I made for you that you want to use as well as the design of your cover and your logo and
more than in Step Three we create your executive summary.
Moving on to Step 4 we make the management team part of your business plan.
And it's important to leave that earlier in because what happens is a lot of very successful investors
venture capitalists and people that might be in your business plan.
They know that the most important thing is your management team and don't worry if you don't have much
experience because I'm going to show you how to create a board instead for for free.
The easy way.
OK.
Moving on to Step Five.
What we'll do is we will make your product or service as part of a business plan and then after that
we're going to cover the customer and the market.
Then the competition part of the business plan then the go to market strategy meaning how we distribute
your product or service then we discuss the sales and marketing strategy milestones.
Other items then financials and then the appendix in step 13.
Then after we're done with all 13 steps we'll create your finace your final business plan document together
to populate your Microsoft Word document meaning one of the 50 templates that you decide to download
and use.
And don't worry as I will make this very easy and fun to do and I will guide you on every single step
and on every single question and answer that you create in this course.
And so I want to stress that this course will not be us or only tech focused.
It will also be global in nature.
So it doesn't matter what country you're in and it doesn't matter what industry your startup is in.
Now I want to I want to do what ever it takes to humbly help you create the perfect business plan.
And I hold a three hour webcast.
Office hours call for my students every single Thursday on my YouTube channel and you can always click
this Kuna image here to join the Web cast and asked me an unlimited number of questions on this weekly
office hours call and the call never ever ends.
Each week until all questions have been answered even if it means that the call ends up being eight
hours long I will do whatever it takes to help you.
And I've created and I've read hundreds of business plan documents in my career in venture capital as
an entrepreneur when I worked in consulting and while I worked on Wall Street and I humbly know what
it takes to make an amazing business plan which we will do together and I poured my heart and everything
I've got into making this course and I had a lot of fun making the course and I really hope you enjoy
it.
And so let's start creating your business plan together in the next lecture where we discuss step 1.
Thanks again and let's get.